---
layout: section_four
style: style3
header:
    title: <strong>Task 2</strong>
section-id: task-2
columns: 1
---

## <strong>Task 2.1</strong>

**Conduct a socioeconomic status (SES) analysis to inform the development of
equitable energy systems, and guide community outreach and workforce development
needs in New Mexicoâ€™s diverse communities.**

Researchers assigned to this task include Dr. Haggerty, Dr. Sullivan, Dr. Han,
Dr. Zhao, and Dr. Shanahan.

This task involves a deep dive into the social and economic dimensions of the
three targeted communities. Then utilize this analysis to prepare the research
team and collaborators for effective community engagements and outreach, and
help craft tailored energy solutions that inform strategies for addressing the
unique challenges and needs of each community

---

## <strong>Task 2.2</strong>

**Utilize proven strategies for conducting community conversations to
effectively engage the broader communities in identifying and co-developing
equitable, relatable, and relevant strategies for energy systems management and
to inform opportunities for future energy infrastructure investment and guide
prioritization of vulnerable communities.**

Researchers assigned are Dr. Sullivan, Dr. Surova, Dr. Han, Dr. Shanahan, Dr.
Haggerty, Dr. Kirksey, and Dr. Shi.

This task focuses on fostering co-development and effective collaboration in
energy planning through engaged community conversations. The task employs a
stakeholder analysis approach to thoroughly understand the roles and influences
of various stakeholders.

<img src="/images/research-tasks/task-2-2.png" alt="Stakeholder analysis for
community engagement" style="width: 75%; height: auto;">

*Figure 2: A roadmap of community conversations.*

---

## <strong>Task 2.3</strong>

**Community-centric energy system design and implementation.**

Researchers for this task are Dr. Han, Dr. Haggerty, Dr. Zhao, Dr. Wang, and Dr. Miller.

This task uses the insights from Tasks 1 and 2 to produce tangible energy
solutions for communities like Kit Carson, Mora-San Miguel, and the Navajo
Nation. By developing and deploying customized pilot energy systems that are
attuned to the unique needs and expressed preferences of each community we will
integrate successful elements from these community-specific energy systems into
broader energy policies for the local communities and the states of the region.

---

## <strong>Task 2.4</strong>

**Developing context-sensitive energy justice measures for the digital twin.**

Researchers include Dr. Han, Dr. Zhao, Dr. Haggerty, Dr. Zhang, and Dr. Surova.

By comprehensively studying the socioeconomic context of communities and
recognizing the limitations of existing measures, which predominantly focus on
the percentage of minority and low-income groups we are developing an integrated
set of energy justice measures that will extend existing ones. By extending the
existing ones, proposed by EPA and DOE, it will account for a broader spectrum
of socioeconomic attributes.

